Proofreading MO Guide (#11605)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/IR_and_opsets.md

> # Deep Learning Network Intermediate Representation and Operation Sets in OpenVINO {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_IR_and_opsets}

Reviewer: Trademarks should be used at their first prominent occurrence in headings and body text.

> This article provides essential information on the format used for representation of deep learning models in OpenVINO toolkit and supported operation sets.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article provides essential information on the format used for representation of deep learning models in OpenVINO™ and its supported operation sets.  
```

## Overview of Artificial Neural Networks Representation

> 

Reviewer: The summary sentence is still helpful. I suggest we add it back.

Author: Definitely. , "Paragraph", IMHO, doesn't fit the documentation.  It connotes a large block of unseparated text.

A deep learning network is usually represented as a directed graph describing the flow of data from the network input data to the inference results.

> Input data can be represented as a photograph, video, audio information or some preprocessed data that represent object from the target area of interest in a convenient way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input data can be represented as a photograph, video, audio information or some preprocessed data that represent objects from the target area of interest in a convenient way.
```

# Deep Learning Network Intermediate Representation and Operation Sets in OpenVINO™ {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_IR_and_opsets}

This article provides essential information on the format used for representation of deep learning models in OpenVINO toolkit and supported operation sets.  

## Overview of Artificial Neural Networks Representation

A deep learning network is usually represented as a directed graph describing the flow of data from the network input data to the inference results.
Input data can be represented as a photograph, video, audio information or some preprocessed data that represent objects from the target area of interest in a convenient way.

Here is an illustration of a small graph representing a model that consists of a single Convolutional layer and activation function:

![](img/small_IR_graph_demonstration.png)

> Vertices in the graph represent layers or operation instances, like convolution, pooling or element-wise operations with tensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vertices in the graph represent layers or operation instances such as convolution, pooling, or element-wise operations with tensors.
```

![](img/small_IR_graph_demonstration.png)

Vertices in the graph represent layers or operation instances, like convolution, pooling or element-wise operations with tensors.
Layer and operation terms are used interchangeably along the OpenVINO documentation and define how input data is processed to produce output data for a node in a graph.
An operation node in a graph may consume data at one or multiple input ports.

> For example, element-wise addition operation has two input ports which accepts tensors that are added together.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, element-wise addition operation has two input ports which accept tensors that are added together.
```

> Some operations don't have any input ports, for example *`Const`* operation which knowns the data to be produced without any input.

Author: ```suggestion
Some operations do not have any input ports, for example *`Const`* operation, which knows the data to be produced without any input.
```

An edge between operations represent data flow or data dependency implied from one operation node to another operation node.

> Each operation produces data on one or multiple output ports. For example, convolution produces output tensor with activations at a single output port. Split operation usually has multiple output ports each producing part of an input tensor.

Author: ```suggestion
Each operation produces data on one or multiple output ports. For example, convolution produces output tensor with activations at a single output port. Split operation usually has multiple output ports, each producing part of an input tensor.
```

![](img/small_IR_graph_demonstration.png)

Vertices in the graph represent layers or operation instances, like convolution, pooling or element-wise operations with tensors.
Layer and operation terms are used interchangeably along the OpenVINO documentation and define how input data is processed to produce output data for a node in a graph.
An operation node in a graph may consume data at one or multiple input ports.

> For example, element-wise addition operation has two input ports which accept tensors that are added together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, element-wise addition operation has two input ports, which accepts tensors that are added together.
```

Reviewer: I think the subject of "accept" is "element-wise addition operation" here.

> Some operations do not have any input ports, for example *`Const`* operation, which knows the data to be produced without any input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some operations do not have any input ports, for example the *`Const`* operation, which knows the data to be produced without any input.
```

> An edge between operations represent data flow or data dependency implied from one operation node to another operation node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An edge between operations represents data flow or data dependency implied from one operation node to another.
```

Each operation produces data on one or multiple output ports. For example, convolution produces output tensor with activations at a single output port. Split operation usually has multiple output ports, each producing part of an input tensor.

Depending on a deep learning framework, the graph can also contain extra nodes that explicitly represent tensors between operations.

> In such representations, operation nodes are not connected directly to each other, rather using data nodes as intermediate stops for data flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such representations, operation nodes are not connected to each other directly. They are rather using data nodes as intermediate stops for data flow.
```

If data nodes are not used, the produced data is associated with an output port of a corresponding operation node that produces the data.

A set of various operations used in a network is usually fixed for each deep learning framework.
It determines expressiveness and level of representation available in that framework.

> A network that can be represented in one framework is sometimes hard or impossible to be represented in another one or should use significantly different graph because operation sets used in those two frameworks do not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, a network that can be represented in one framework is hard or impossible to be represented in another one or should use significantly different graph, because operation sets used in those two frameworks do not match.
```

## Intermediate Representation Used in OpenVINO

OpenVINO toolkit introduces its own format of graph representation and its own operation set.
A graph is represented with two files: an XML file and a binary file.
This representation is commonly referred to as the *Intermediate Representation* or *IR*.

The XML file describes a network topology using a *`<layer>`* tag for an operation node and an *`<edge>`* tag for a data-flow connection.
Each operation has a fixed number of attributes that define operation flavor used for a node.

> For example, *`Convolution`* operation has such attributes as *`dilation`*, *`stride`*, *`pads_begin`* and *`pads_end`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the *`Convolution`* operation has such attributes as *`dilation`*, *`stride`*, *`pads_begin`* and *`pads_end`*.
```

> The XML file does not have big constant values, like convolution weights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XML file does not have big constant values like convolution weights.
```

It determines expressiveness and level of representation available in that framework.

> It may happen that a network that can be represented in one framework is hard or impossible to be represented in another one or should use significantly different graph because operation sets used in those two frameworks do not match.

Author: ```suggestion
A network that can be represented in one framework is sometimes hard or impossible to be represented in another one or should use significantly different graph because operation sets used in those two frameworks do not match.
```

## Intermediate Representation Used in OpenVINO

OpenVINO toolkit introduces its own format of graph representation and its own operation set.
A graph is represented with two files: an XML file and a binary file.
This representation is commonly referred to as the *Intermediate Representation* or *IR*.

The XML file describes a network topology using a *`<layer>`* tag for an operation node and an *`<edge>`* tag for a data-flow connection.
Each operation has a fixed number of attributes that define operation flavor used for a node.
For example, *`Convolution`* operation has such attributes as *`dilation`*, *`stride`*, *`pads_begin`* and *`pads_end`*.

> The XML file doesn't have big constant values, like convolution weights.

Author: ```suggestion
The XML file does not have big constant values, like convolution weights.
```

</net>
```

The IR does not use explicit data nodes described in the previous section.
In contrast, properties of data such as tensor dimensions and their data types are described as properties of input and output ports of operations.

> ## Operation Set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Operation Sets
```

Operations in the OpenVINO Operation Set are selected based on capabilities of supported deep learning frameworks and hardware capabilities of the target inference device.
It consists of several groups of operations:

>  * Conventional deep learning layers, like *`Convolution`*, *`MaxPool`*, *`MatMul`* (also known as *`FullyConnected`*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Conventional deep learning layers such as *`Convolution`*, *`MaxPool`*, and *`MatMul`* (also known as *`FullyConnected`*).
```

>  * Various activation functions, like *`ReLU`*, *`Tanh`*, *`PReLU`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Various activation functions like *`ReLU`*, *`Tanh`*, *`PReLU`*.
```

>  * Generic element-wise arithmetic tensor operations, like *`Add`*, *`Subtract`*, *`Multiply`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Generic element-wise arithmetic tensor operations like *`Add`*, *`Subtract`*, and *`Multiply`*.
```

>  * Comparison operations that compare two numeric tensors and produce boolean tensors, like *`Less`*, *`Equeal`*, *`Greater`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Comparison operations that compare two numeric tensors and produce boolean tensors like *`Less`*, *`Equeal`*, and *`Greater`*.
```

>  * Logical operations that are dealing with boolean tensors, like *`And`*, *`Xor`*, *`Not`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Logical operations that are dealing with boolean tensors, for example, *`And`*, *`Xor`*, and *`Not`*.
```

>  * Data movement operations which are dealing with parts of tensors, like *`Concat`*, *`Split`*, *`StridedSlice`*, *`Select`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Data movement operations which are dealing with parts of tensors, for example, *`Concat`*, *`Split`*, *`StridedSlice`*, and *`Select`*.
```

>  * Specialized operations that implement complex algorithms dedicated for models of specific type, like *`DetectionOutput`*, *`RegionYolo`*, *`PriorBox`*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Specialized operations that implement complex algorithms dedicated for models of specific type, for example, *`DetectionOutput`*, *`RegionYolo`*, *`PriorBox`*.
```

For more information, refer to the complete description of the supported operation sets in the [Available Operation Sets](../ops/opset.md) article.

## IR Versions vs Operation Set Versions

The expressiveness of operations in OpenVINO is highly dependent on the supported frameworks and target hardware capabilities.
As the frameworks and hardware capabilities grow over time, the operation set is constantly evolving to support new models.
To maintain backward compatibility and growing demands, both IR format and operation set have versioning.

Version of IR specifies the rules which are used to read the XML and binary files that represent a model. It defines an XML schema and compatible operation set that can be used to describe operations.

Historically, there are two major IR version epochs:

> 1. The older one includes IR versions from version 1 to version 7 without versioning of the operation set. During that epoch, the operation set has been growing evolutionally accumulating more layer types and extending existing layer semantics. Changing of the operation set for those versions meant increasing of IR version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The older one includes IR versions from version 1 to version 7 without versioning of the operation set. During that epoch, the operation set has been growing evolutionally accumulating more layer types and extending existing layer semantics. Changing of the operation set for those versions meant increasing of IR version. 
```

## Operation Set

Operations in the OpenVINO Operation Set are selected based on capabilities of supported deep learning frameworks and hardware capabilities of the target inference device.
It consists of several groups of operations:

 * Conventional deep learning layers, like *`Convolution`*, *`MaxPool`*, *`MatMul`* (also known as *`FullyConnected`*).

 * Various activation functions, like *`ReLU`*, *`Tanh`*, *`PReLU`*.

 * Generic element-wise arithmetic tensor operations, like *`Add`*, *`Subtract`*, *`Multiply`*.

 * Comparison operations that compare two numeric tensors and produce boolean tensors, like *`Less`*, *`Equeal`*, *`Greater`*.

 * Logical operations that are dealing with boolean tensors, like *`And`*, *`Xor`*, *`Not`*.

 * Data movement operations which are dealing with parts of tensors, like *`Concat`*, *`Split`*, *`StridedSlice`*, *`Select`*.

 * Specialized operations that implement complex algorithms dedicated for models of specific type, like *`DetectionOutput`*, *`RegionYolo`*, *`PriorBox`*.

> For more information, refer to the complete description of the supported operation sets in the [Available Operation Sets article](../ops/opset.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the complete description of the supported operation sets in the [Available Operation Sets](../ops/opset.md) article.
```

As the frameworks and hardware capabilities grow over time, the operation set is constantly evolving to support new models.
To maintain backward compatibility and growing demands, both IR format and operation set have versioning.

Version of IR specifies the rules which are used to read the XML and binary files that represent a model. It defines an XML schema and compatible operation set that can be used to describe operations.

Historically, there are two major IR version epochs:

1. The older one includes IR versions from version 1 to version 7 without versioning of the operation set. During that epoch, the operation set has been growing evolutionally accumulating more layer types and extending existing layer semantics. Changing of the operation set for those versions meant increasing of IR version. 

2. OpenVINO 2020.1 is the starting point of the next epoch. With IR version 10 introduced in OpenVINO 2020.1, the versioning of the operation set is tracked separately from the IR versioning. Also, the operation set was significantly reworked as the result of nGraph integration to the OpenVINO.

The first supported operation set in the new epoch is *`opset1`*.

> The number after *`opset`* is going to be increased each time when new operations are added or old operations deleted at the release cadence.

Author: ```suggestion
The number after *`opset`* is going to be increased each time new operations are added or old operations deleted at the release cadence.
```

                    ...
```

> The attributes *`type="Parameter"`* and *`version="opset1"`* in the above example mean "use that version of operation *`Parameter`* that is included into the operation set *`opset1`*".

Author: ```suggestion
The *`type="Parameter"`* and *`version="opset1"`* attributes  in the example above mean "use that version of *`Parameter`* operation that is included into the *`opset1`* operation set.
```

> The *`type="Parameter"`* and *`version="opset1"`* attributes, in the example above, mean "use that version of *`Parameter`* operation that is included into the *`opset1`* operation set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *`type="Parameter"`* and *`version="opset1"`* attributes, in the example above, mean "use that version of the *`Parameter`* operation that is included in the *`opset1`* operation set.
```

> When a new operation set is introduced, the significant part of the operations remains unchanged and it is just aliased from the previous operation set within a new one.

Author: ```suggestion
When a new operation set is introduced, most of the operations remain unchanged and are just aliased from the previous operation set within a new one.
```

> The goal of operation set versions evolution is adding new operations, and probably changing of small fraction of existing operations (fixing bugs and extending semantics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of operation set version evolution is to add new operations, and probably change small fractions of existing operations (fixing bugs and extending semantics).
```

> However such changes affect only new versions of operations from a new operation set, while old operations are used by specifying an appropriate *`version`*.

Author: ```suggestion
However, such changes affect only new versions of operations from a new operation set, while old operations are used by specifying an appropriate *`version`*.
```

> When the old *`version`* is specified, the behavior is kept unchanged from that specified version to provide the backward compatibility with older IRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an old *`version`* is specified, the behavior will keep unchanged from that specified version to provide backward compatibility with older IRs.
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
When an old *`version`* is specified, the behavior will be kept unchanged from that specified version to provide backward compatibility with older IRs.
```

or

```suggestion
When an old *`version`* is specified, the behavior will not change from that specified version to provide backward compatibility with older IRs.
```

A single *`xml`* file with IR may contain operations from different opsets.

> An operation that is included into several opsets may be referred to with *`version`* which points to any opset that includes that operation.

Author: ```suggestion
An operation that is included into several opsets may be referred to with *`version`*, which points to any opset that includes that operation.
```

For example, the same *`Convolution`* can be used with *`version="opset1"`* and *`version="opset2"`* because both opsets have the same *`Convolution`* operations.

> ## How to Read the Specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Read Opset Specification
```

                    ...
```

> The `type="Parameter"` and `version="opset1"` attributes, in the example above, mean "use that version of the `Parameter` operation that is included in the `opset1` operation set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `type="Parameter"` and `version="opset1"` attributes in the example above mean "use that version of the `Parameter` operation that is included in the `opset1` operation set. "
```

Two or more opsets may refer to the same operation.
That means an operation is kept unchanged from one operation set to another.

> Each operation description has a field *`Versioned name`*.

Author: ```suggestion
Description of each operation has a *`Versioned name`* field.
```

> Description of each operation has a *`Versioned name`* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description of each operation has a *`Versioned name`* field.
```

> For example, *`ReLU`* entry point in [`opset1`](../ops/opset1.md) refers to [`ReLU-1`](../ops/activation/ReLU_1.md) as the versioned name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the *`ReLU`* entry point in [`opset1`](../ops/opset1.md) refers to [`ReLU-1`](../ops/activation/ReLU_1.md) as the versioned name.
```

Meanwhile, *`ReLU`* in *`opset2`* refers to the same *`ReLU-1`* and both *`ReLU`* operations are the same operation and it has a single [description](../ops/activation/ReLU_1.md), which means that *`opset1`* and *`opset2`* share the same operation *`ReLU`*.

> To differentiate versions of the same operation type, like *`ReLU`*, the suffix *`-N`* is used in a versioned name of the operation.

Author: ```suggestion
To differentiate versions of the same operation type, like *`ReLU`*, the *`-N`* suffix is used in a versioned name of the operation.
```

> To differentiate versions of the same operation type, like *`ReLU`*, the *`-N`* suffix is used in a versioned name of the operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To differentiate versions of the same operation type such as *`ReLU`*, the *`-N`* suffix is used in a versioned name of the operation.
```

> The *`N`* usually refers to the first *`opsetN`* where this version of the operation is introduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *`N`* suffix usually refers to the first occurrence of *`opsetN`* where this version of the operation is introduced.
```

> It is not guaranteed that new operations will be named according to that rule. The naming convention might be changed, but not for old operations which are frozen completely.

Author: ```suggestion
There is no guarantee that new operations will be named according to that rule. The naming convention might be changed, but not for old operations which are frozen completely.
```
